[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
And joining me is
Dr. Baskaran Pillai.
He is a spiritual scientist,
an academic scholar,
and a world thought leader.
We had an interview with
Dr. Pillai here on Gaiam TV.
And this is an
opportunity for him
to join us again because
I had so many more
questions about realizing our
huge, beautiful, full human
potential.
Now, you had mentioned
something slightly
about doing a blessing.
Is this something that
you call Shaktipat.
>>BASKARAN PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: Could you explain
what Shaktipat is?
>>PILLAI: Shakti is energy.
It's the Sanskrit word
which means the energy.
Pat is transmission.
This is something I
told Wayne Dyer, too.
I can give a talk for
two hours, three hours.
It's an intellectual exercise.
You may or may
not appreciate it.
And then you leave.
But Shaktipat is something
where no words are used.
It is a transmission.
It is my intention.
It is the intention
of the teacher
to go and enter the
consciousness of the students
to make changes in
his consciousness.
So silently, without words.
So this is what happened when
I said in the last interview
that Carl Jung went to
see the Raman Maharshi,
and no words were uttered.
And then he said he was in
a profoundly altered state
of consciousness.
>>LISA: By being
in the presence?
>>PILLAI: By being
in the presence.
So you can make the
person's kundalini to rise.
When I move this, I
can catch the kundalini
and then raise it.
>>LISA: Yes, you can.
[CHUCKLING]
Thank you.
By the power of your intention?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, by the
power of my intention.
It depends on certain
conditions, the receptivity
of the student, and
the student's level
of consciousness, and
also the teacher's level.
So that is important to
take into consideration.
>>LISA: I read once
that it's essentially
a transfer of a seed of energy.
Do you know what
I'm talking about,
where it's like a seed
of energy that you're
transplanting into
the other person?
Could you explain
that a little more?
>>PILLAI: It's my intention--
>>LISA: That's the seed.
OK.
>>PILLAI: --to impact
the other person,
to open up his or
her consciousness.
And also the raising
of the kundalini.
The kundalini is the energy
that stays in sixth chakra,
and below it too.
And when I raise it,
and I bring it up,
bring it up, and then go
to the third eye, and then
the crown chakra.
>>LISA: That gives me energy.
Energy, it lifts the energy.
Can you do this with
groups of people?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: In mass
groups of people.
>>PILLAI: Yeah, I've
done that many things.
And I've also done it
on one of the YouTubes.
There is a YouTube
called Particle Darshan.
Darshan also is Shaktipat.
>>LISA: What is
that word, Darshan?
>>PILLAI: Particle Darshan.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PILLAI: So then people
keep on looking at me.
Then my eyes will change.
And they have captured
it on the camera.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PILLAI: So you just
watch that particular--
it's about a minute or two.
I don't remember.
>>LISA: Really?
>>PILLAI: Yeah people have
to only focus on that.
It is on my YouTube videos.
>>LISA: Where your
eyes will change?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, my
eyes will change.
>>LISA: OK, so--
>>PILLAI: Then I will not move.
>>LISA: So in this video,
your eyes changed shape?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: And you do that by
slowing down the REM movement
in your eyes?
>>PILLAI: I am completely still.
No words are spoken.
>>LISA: And you've
trained yourself?
>>PILLAI: And then I ask
people to look at me.
I don't remember even
if I ask them to do it.
Maybe in the beginning, I
say, this is Particle Darshan.
And it was a while ago.
So I don't remember.
But there is one.
>>LISA: Is that a good
way to start a meditation,
to be able to slow
the thoughts down
by stopping the
rapid eye movement?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, you could keep
your eyes completely still,
no thoughts will
come to the brain.
>>LISA: How long did it take you
to learn something like that?
>>PILLAI: In my
case, many lifetimes.
So I was born with that
ability to do that.
>>LISA: And your
teachers, did they
tell you that you are here
to make major changes?
>>PILLAI: Yes.
>>LISA: Explain that to me.
>>PILLAI: Well, in India--
it's a magical country.
You could just go to India.
You can go to my
ashram, for instance.
And then they will-- you
just give your thumbprint.
Nothing is asked.
Then there are scriptures there,
written thousands of years ago.
And from that,
they will find out
your name, your father's
name, your mother's name.
And if you're married,
your husband's
name, and what you are
doing for a living,
and why you are suffering.
All these things will be there.
They won't know
anything about you.
>>LISA: And I could do
this not being from India?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, you can
do it on Skype also.
I just introduced that.
>>LISA: What?
>>PILLAI: You can
do it on the Skype.
It is called astroved.com.
>>LISA: What is it?
>>PILLAI: Astroved.com.
All that you need to do
is you just send your--
if you are a woman,
left thumbprint.
If you are a man,
the right thumbprint.
You just scan it, and
then send it to them.
And then they will
set an appointment.
And only certain
people can do that
who are born in that family.
And they have the
leaves, palm leaves,
on which everything
was written to you.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness!
>>PILLAI: In a very
coded language.
So they will come.
And then they will ask you.
Now, I once had in
New York 500 people
watching this on the video.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness,
watching it live?
>>PILLAI: Watching it live.
I can do it for
you on a show, too.
>>LISA: Interesting.
And now--
>>PILLAI: Anybody can do it.
I don't have to be present.
>>LISA: And why the
left finger-- thumb
for the woman and
right for the man?
>>PILLAI: I don't know why.
>>LISA: You don't know?
And this is a family, a
lineage of family members
that have this gift?
>>PILLAI: There
about maybe totally
about less than 200
people who can do that.
>>LISA: Wow.
Are you one of them?
>>PILLAI: No, I'm not.
These are people
who work for me.
>>LISA: In the ashram?
>>PILLAI: In the ashram, yeah.
>>LISA: Wow.
What is your ashram
called in India?
>>PILLAI: It is a
private one that I
don't allow other people.
Because even here, I don't
allow public to come.
It is only a very closed one.
But then I have services
rendered through two websites.
One is pillaicenter.com.
And the other is astroved.com
Because I don't believe in
opening my esoteric teachings
to the public.
And those people who
are committed to me,
they have access to it.
So it's a closed setting.
>>LISA: And why is
your choice for that?
What is your choice
in doing that?
>>PILLAI: It's because
people have to be ready.
And it's not, you know, like, I
truly believe Jesus is saying,
don't throw the pearls
before the swines.
It's a waste of time.
>>LISA: Yes.
In your experience as
a spiritual teacher,
do you find that
there are people
that will follow you
and only follow you
without going on and
living their lives?
That they will just
dedicate themselves--
>>PILLAI: No, my
teaching is 200% life.
>>LISA: Explain.
>>PILLAI: 100% material
and 100% spiritual.
You don't have to leave
your profession or business
or anything that you are doing
in order to be enlightened.
You can do everything
that you want
to do and still be enlightened.
Otherwise, it's just
a lopsided reality.
Look at the Buddha's reality.
The Buddha could
have been a king.
He was the only
heir to the throne.
But he elected to become
an ascetic and a recluse.
That is not a model
agreeable to me.
But I'm not
condemning the Buddha.
He's a great being.
But that's what he chose to do.
He chose to leave his wife,
his son, and his father
and kingdom.
But my model is that you
can do it both together.
That is my lineage.
My lineage, all the Siddhas,
we are married people.
And then they live this life.
And then they will
also simultaneously
live the other world, too.
>>LISA: And you're still
in constant contact
with your wife and your child?
>>PILLAI: Of course.
I have a daughter who
is grown up and married.
>>LISA: And did she go on to
study your tradition as well?
>>PILLAI: Well, she's a
professor in a law school.
So she does her thing.
But she is spiritual, too.
>>LISA: That's wonderful.
What is your overarching goal?
What did you come here to do?
>>PILLAI: I just came here
to do to prove to the world
that through changing your
mindset, or consciousness,
which is basically changing
how the brain works,
you can change anything
that you want to change.
You can heal your body.
You can change your finances.
You can also fix
your relationships.
All these things, these are
the major areas of human life.
>>LISA: But you have to
want it first, don't you?
>>PILLAI: Of course.
If you don't want it first,
then nothing can be done.
Because it's a choice
that people make.
>>LISA: But sometimes people
don't know what they want.
As you said, they don't
have any prior knowledge.
They're just living
in the suffering.
>>PILLAI: But everybody
wants a nice home.
Everybody wants a little bit
of cash for them to spend.
And everybody wants
a good relationship.
And if they don't want
it, then it's difficult.
They have to want it.
They have the want.
And I think that's not a
big deal, because everybody,
if you ask anybody, do you
want to live in poverty,
or do you want to
live in abundance?
Everybody's going to say, no,
I just want a Rolls Royce.
I want a Ferrari.
>>LISA: Of course, well--
well-- in your case,
when you say that you want to
prove to people that they can
use the power of their
mind to manifest,
what happens if
that doesn't happen?
>>PILLAI: Keep doing.
>>LISA: Keep doing it?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, keep doing.
>>LISA: And so far--
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
that's what it is.
This question was asked-- was
put to Paramahansa Yogananda.
He lived here.
And he also passed
away in Los Angeles.
You have heard about this
man, Paramahansa Yogananda?
>>LISA: Of course.
>>PILLAI: Who wrote the book,
"The Autobiography of a Yogi."
His main center is in Watts.
>>LISA: I've interviewed
many from his center.
Yeah.
>>PILLAI: In this
city is the building
that he first bought
in Mount Washington.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PILLAI: His guru came and
told him the previous night,
there is a building
waiting for you.
Go get it.
That was the only building
where the Hollywood stars were
staying at that time because
there were no five star
hotels at that time.
The guru had come and told him.
By the time Paramahansa
had come here,
had no visa, nothing,
there was a woman
was driving him around
and telling him,
what are you looking for?
I'm looking for the building
that my guru had shown me
in a dream.
What do you thinking?
This is a really posh area.
Are you in your mind?
He said, I am not in
my mind, of course.
So when he came to this
building, he said stop.
This is the building
I want to buy.
You can go and look
at the building.
It was used to play tennis
and everything there
in that building.
It was gorgeous, gorgeous
building with a lot of land.
And he had no money, literally
no money to buy that building.
So the lady-- he bought it.
And it's a long story.
>>LISA: How?
>>PILLAI: Well,
he asked the lady
to stop the car to find
out if it is for sale.
She came back and
said, it is for sale.
Then I will buy it.
>>LISA: OK.
And how did he do it?
>>PILLAI: He used
to heal people.
So he healed some rich people.
And some money came.
At that time, it was $40,000.
Today, it would be like-- that
building will be like $10,
$20 million.
And there were challenges.
And then he had--
Of course, the house
was in like a 90 day--
what do they call?
>>LISA: Escrow?
>>PILLAI: Escrow, 90 day escrow.
Time was running out.
He could not get the $5,000.
>>LISA: The last $5,000?
>>PILLAI: The last,
$35,000 he was able to pay.
And then the $5,000 was
really a big problem.
But at the time, he called--
a woman called from Boston.
I have the $5,000.
But I have to drive from
Boston to Los Angeles.
>>LISA: To give it to you.
>>PILLAI: To give it to you.
But then you'll run out of time.
But he called the owner.
The owner said, I want to
give it to you, regardless.
Although I have a better offer,
but I don't want to do that.
I want my building to go to you.
And he-- this is the
most important point.
The lady who was
driving him asked him,
how did you manage to do this?
Because I believed in it.
And you didn't believe in it.
>>LISA: That's an amazing
lesson in-- where people believe
in something, and
somebody else doesn't.
Who is responsible
for making it happen?
>>PILLAI: That happens most
of the time between couples.
It's really ironic
and painful, too.
That the husband usually
is a left brain person
and doesn't-- you know,
you are off the wall.
And you are a dreamer.
I have so many
students like that.
I am the only one who
has to make the money.
And you are a new age crackpot.
These things are
not going to happen.
So that's really difficult.
>>LISA: Could the new age
person intend it or will it?
Or when you have
somebody who doesn't
have the same intentions,
can you really manifest it?
>>PILLAI: It is very difficult
if they live in the same space.
>>LISA: Or if you
want to have something
to do with that person.
So is it better to
manifest on your own?
>>PILLAI: On your own.
>>LISA: On your own.
Could groups manifest
together as long
as they have the same intention?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: Is it more effective?
>>PILLAI: It is effective
they are in a group.
>>LISA: In a group?
So--
>>PILLAI: And they
have to prove also.
They have to prove also.
>>LISA: They have to what?
>>PILLAI: Prove that they
are able to manifest.
>>LISA: I see.
So if someone were
to-- say two children
were to intend the well being
of a parent who is dying.
Does the parent also want
to have the will to live?
>>PILLAI: It will
be helpful if they
are both on the same wavelength.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PILLAI: If they are
not, it is difficult.
But it still can be done.
It depends upon
the consciousness
of this person who is intending.
>>LISA: So in your
desire of what
you want to do, in
terms of teach people
that they can create.
And I could ask you questions
about this all day long.
What have you experienced?
Are people learning this?
Are they receiving it?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, they are.
They are.
>>LISA: More than ever now?
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
definitely they are.
The world is changing,
definitely changing.
>>LISA: That's what I
want to talk to you about.
So when you say it's
changing, how long
have you seen this
change coming about?
>>PILLAI: I think it has
made a dramatic shift
beginning of the 2012.
>>LISA: Do you feel that
there are dark forces?
>>PILLAI: The last of the
Mayan calendar in the--
>>LISA: Well, yeah.
Do you feel that there are
still dark forces present?
>>PILLAI: There will
always be dark forces.
They will be against the
evolution of the human race.
And we have to
fight against them.
And a large group
of people meditating
will facilitate the process.
>>LISA: Do you know
something specifically?
>>PILLAI: For instance, the
Maharishi's group, about 10,
12 years ago in Washington,
DC, they brought 3,000 people.
And then they told the
police department of DC
that we will bring
down the crime
rate by 25% in three months.
Just 3,000 people sitting
in one place and meditating
brought down 25% percent of
the crime in Washington, DC.
It's a scientific fact.
And now the police department
is a partner in the study.
So group consciousness
is very, very important.
>>LISA: How--
>>PILLAI: I think
if you do something
like that, that would
be useful for the world.
>>LISA: Are there groups
now all over, right?
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
yeah, the problem
is every group
thinks that they've
got the right meditation.
That's the problem.
>>LISA: Why are we
so divided like that?
>>PILLAI: Because ego.
>>LISA: Ego, yes.
>>PILLAI: It's because of
ego, which is ignorance.
To me, it doesn't
matter whether it
is a Muslim group
or a Christian group
or a Hindu group or
Bahai or whatever group,
Native American group.
They all can join together.
And then let them
do whatever they
want to do because they
are calling on God.
And God understands
every language.
Of course, there are
techniques to help
you to get beyond the mind.
And that can be incorporated
if the tradition doesn't
have the technique.
>>LISA: Well, the techniques
are, as you talked about
in the other show, getting past
the ego into a place of bliss.
>>PILLAI: The moment
you put your attention
in the mid-brain, the
attention will go on there.
Then the frontal lobe, which
is this reality which says I
am just $10, or $20.
And I have a bad relationship.
I don't look good.
And then I am overweight.
All this nonsense, it's
all completely coded here.
When you just go into
the mid-brain area,
the mid-brain doesn't
to differentiate
between reality and illusion.
>>LISA: What about aging?
Can--
>>PILLAI: Everything,
everything you
can program in the mid-brain.
>>LISA: What is--
>>PILLAI: You can
stop the aging.
>>LISA: You can stop
the aging process?
>>PILLAI: Stopping
aging is stopping time.
>>LISA: How do you do--
>>PILLAI: Time is aging.
What is aging?
Aging is time.
And time is unreal.
And if you let go of
this concept of time
that you have currently,
that's what matters.
>>LISA: Have you let go
of the aging process?
>>PILLAI: Of course.
>>LISA: You did?
I'm 66 years old.
I just don't feel that I am 66.
And I always think
that I'm 15-year-old.
>>LISA: 15?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: [CHUCKLING].
Yes.
I didn't mean to laugh, I
mean just because it's fun.
It's a fun--
>>PILLAI: The moment you
say, if you re-enforce
the fact that you
are old, or 65,
and then your prostate
is going to go wrong.
And if you go to
the doctor, they'll
hear-- he'll say,
oh, for your age.
This is what I hear
from my doctors.
For your age, you're
doing well, because these
are the things that
should have gone wrong.
>>LISA: Interesting, because
you don't go to doctors,
or because you just
don't believe in that?
>>PILLAI: I do go.
I have-- my doctor
is my student also.
So he knows.
>>LISA: So that helps.
The normal statistics
are not placed on you.
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: So we've talked
a little bit about money.
We've talked about
relationships.
But let's talk a little
bit more about health.
And aging is a perfect
way to talk about this.
There's a lot of
complications that
come with the body
breaking down.
So you really don't believe that
the body needs to break down?
>>PILLAI: No.
>>LISA: What do you do instead?
>>PILLAI: You arrest time.
If you arrest time, stop
time, then everything
happens, whether it's
changing your money situation
or your relationship
or your health.
Everything will change if
you just stay in the now.
And the now is the
absence of the mind,
because the mind is time.
So if that you do, it
is just a make believe.
The mind is a make believe.
And we all do that.
When we go to
sleep, what happens?
The mind disappears.
>>LISA: Well, the mind,
though, we create so much
with the mind that seems real.
So you're saying we're
just making it all up?
>>PILLAI: See, the mind creates
only a very limited reality.
It cannot create an
unlimited reality.
Maybe the mind conceives
of, let's say, $1 billion.
That also a limited reality.
But it cannot do
anything to the body.
Now you will be a billionaire.
I know so many
billionaires with cancer.
And then they are crying.
So they cannot do
anything with that.
I think a person who is
very healthy with no money,
his life is better off than
having cancer and money.
So I'm not saying be poor,
but you can have both.
>>LISA: How do you
suggest, though,
having both money and
happiness and health?
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
that is the ideal.
That is the ideal.
Why do you polarize?
That's why I say
that God is not poor.
That is what all
of the religions
are teaching, that God
and money are separate.
That's why I tell people
that God loves money
more than you do.
He loves fun.
>>LISA: Fun?
>>PILLAI: God loves fun.
>>LISA: Happiness.
>>PILLAI: He's a party animal.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: God is a party animal.
>>PILLAI: He's a party animal.
Then you have a very
bad concept of God.
In the Hindu tradition,
it's very different.
There is Krishna, who is a
dancer and who is a musician.
And he has a lot of girlfriends.
That bothers a lot of people.
And there is another god who is
a dancer, Shiva, Dancing Shiva.
So without dance and music,
the life will be miserable.
So we are talking about this
in Hollywood on a Friday.
This is a lot of fun here.
And if you just put
God on a pedestal
and then conceive of him, well,
God is here, and money is here.
God is not a killjoy.
We have created a
God who is a killjoy.
He's not a killjoy at all.
He loves fun.
>>LISA: Do you think
he loves technology?
>>PILLAI: He loves technology.
>>LISA: Everything?
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
everything he loves.
It's all God's creation.
>>LISA: Do you
think God is a he?
Or is he within us?
Or she?
Or are we God?
>>PILLAI: Yes, yes we are.
God created man
in his own image.
If God looked like someone,
he looks like the human being.
>>LISA: He looks
like woman, man.
>>PILLAI: Yeah,
in his own image.
>>LISA: Wayne Dyer
says, I am God.
Is that what you mean by that?
>>PILLAI: So I am
is not the ego.
It is the capital letter I
am, where you don't associate
yourself with the individual,
small self, but with a God.
So the I am is God.
>>LISA: I am, I-A-M is God?
>>PILLAI: Capital I.
>>LISA: Capital I.
>>PILLAI: Versus Lisa, which
is a small I. It is not that.
A small I is identity
with what you are doing,
and what are the events
here in this world.
But the bigger I is you
identify yourself with God.
Like Jesus said, me and
the father are the one.
That got him into
trouble because people
thought he is
claiming to be God.
So it's a blasphemy.
It got him into trouble.
But the truth was-- then he
changed the language and said,
I am not God, but I
am the Son of God.
And even then, the Jews
didn't believe him.
They said, maybe.
>>LISA: Yeah.
It was a story, again, I think
of showing us who we can be
and that when we
separate ourselves
from that God within us
is when we feel suffering.
>>PILLAI: Separation
is suffering.
>>LISA: Separation.
And then how could we then get
back-- if you realize that,
how can you get back
into that alignment of--
>>PILLAI: Changing your
mindset through meditation.
Through meditation,
you dissolve your mind.
You dissolve your
I consciousness.
>>LISA: Have you
ever recommended
a meditation saying, I am God?
>>PILLAI: I have
not done that one.
I have so many other
meditations that I use.
>>LISA: Yeah, can you
explain some of them?
>>PILLAI: Of all the
meditations that-- I
know about 1,000
meditation techniques.
The most powerful technique
are using the sound waves,
using the mantras.
For instance, there
is a mantra that I
use for people to get wealth.
It's a mantra that was
given to me specially
in the special scriptures I
talked about where you get
your name, father's
name, mother's name.
In one of the
scriptures, it came to me
that this particular Yogi
meditated for 1,500 years
and then found out a particular
sound that will give you money.
>>LISA: Really?
>>PILLAI: Because he
was a king previously.
But he wanted to give
money to all his citizens.
And there was no money to
give it to all his citizens.
So he went into meditation.
And in that meditation,
the goddess of wealth
came and told him,
this is the sound.
If people use this
sound, then they
will be able to manifest money.
And that sound is
brzee, B-R-Z-E-E.
It's there on my YouTubes, too.
I experimented this with
so many people, even
with a financial institution.
One financial institution,
I can't say the name, so
that particular division, the
director said to me, well,
this division is
under my control.
There are 30 people--
senior people working here.
How can we do this?
I said, get up 5:00
in the morning.
And for two hours,
do this technique.
So the boss got up,
and then on the phone.
And they will all chant
this sound, brzee.
Brzee!
For two hours.
What happened?
While they were doing that,
another company came forward,
another international
company this is also
an international company, we
want to buy this division.
He told the director,
can you bring your team?
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PILLAI: And here is $1
million sign on bonus for you.
And I also will give
money to other people
according to their levels.
>>LISA: You will, personally?
Or the--
>>PILLAI: The company,
the offer came.
>>LISA: Wow.
Wow.
Interesting.
>>PILLAI: So he totally,
totally believes that.
And he bought, you know.
His life started
to go up and up.
>>LISA: You have a video on
your YouTube channel about this.
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: Let's take a
look at that video.
>>PILLAI: 12, 13
years ago, I was
blessed with a very powerful
mantra to attract money.
And it came directly
from Vishwamitra.
Vishwamitra used to be a king.
And he was upset with
the fact that he was not
able to make every one of
his citizens to be affluent.
So he could not
find any way that he
could do it other than
through his spiritual method.
So he went and studied.
It's a long story.
But then he became
a rajarishi, a king
as well as a rishi, who
was able to create anything
and everything through
his consciousness.
He came through a palm
leaf and gave me a mantra,
a sound called brzee.
And it took several hours for
the mantra to come through.
You just can go and look at
the entire list of mantras.
You won't find brzee, B-R-Z-E-E.
And he said that I should have
the name of brzee, and currently
Lakshmi is known by brzee.
Then whoever works with this
mantra will get all the wealth
they want.
And I did assume the
name for some time.
And then I am more
hard-nosed, again,
to really think I am to be.
I used it for a long time.
And I changed.
So I discontinued using
that or even promoting that.
But later on, again, as
destiny would have it,
that I came back to it
about a year and a half
ago, because I'd found
incredible success that people
were getting from the
use of the sound brzee.
People became millionaires and
bought houses for $18 million.
Some even named their
homes after brzee
because there was a tremendous
amount of power in that sound.
>>LISA: The other video that
you mentioned to me was about
the, uh, the--
>>PILLAI: See, another thing,
this is a very important point.
I have been able to help
people to become millionaires.
Some millionaires have
also become billionaires.
But what is difficult
for me to do
it is to make a
person who is making
$2,000 to even make $2,500.
>>LISA: Really?
Interesting.
>>PILLAI: That I
have to confess,
because-- it is
because of karma.
>>LISA: Oh, let's
talk about that.
>>PILLAI: Yeah, karma
is very, very key.
It's a very key concept.
The Buddha did not
believe in God.
He did not believe in a soul.
But he believed in karma.
What is karma?
The mindset is karma.
These people who
are making $2,000
has a very strong mindset that
they are not able to change.
And that is what is karma.
Don't think it is a
metaphysical concept.
Karma is simply a mindset.
If you can change that mindset,
then you can just move on.
But the mindset is so strong.
And where is it?
It is, again, in the frontal
lobe, because this is the law.
>>LISA: It's
attached to the ego.
>>PILLAI: You are
strongly, strongly,
strongly believe
that I am $2,000.
I cannot, in the
world, make $2,500.
>>LISA: Is this what the people
that are stuck in a certain
economic level are-- you
consider this is they're--
>>PILLAI: It can be
like for people--
like $5,000 people,
$10,000 people.
They have the same, too.
They cannot get beyond that.
>>LISA: Right, right, no
matter how hard they try.
>>PILLAI: No matter how hard.
That's way I teach these
karma removal techniques.
There is this mantra
called Thiru Neela Kantam.
There are so many
videos on that, too.
So you visualize the
blue light on the throat.
And then keep on chanting this
mantra, Thiru Neela Kantam,
Thiru Neela Kantam,
Thiru Neela Kantam.
You do it two hours, and then
definitely, the consciousness
will change.
Your mindset will change.
And, interestingly,
there was somebody
who was given a Nobel
Prize this morning I
saw because he has
worked on the blue light.
And the blue light is
a miraculous light.
The blue light can
change your karma.
>>LISA: Really?
>>PILLAI: The blue light,
if we visualize blue light,
and maybe put blue lights in
the house or the bedrooms,
this will change
your consciousness.
The mindset will be
changed by the blue light.
>>LISA: What about the color
blue, wearing the color blue?
>>PILLAI: Yes, the blue
color, whether we wear,
it will definitely
change your mindset.
>>LISA: Interesting!
Very interesting!
>>PILLAI: So that's
the most important.
I am committed to
the people who are
unable to get beyond $3,000,
$4,000, or even $10,000.
Health, this can be applied
to the field of health also.
>>LISA: Oh, can it really?
Do you think that
there's health karma?
>>PILLAI: Yes.
There is health karma.
There is wealth karma.
There is relationship karma.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Let's take a look at the
video that Dr. Pillai
does where he's talking
about Thiru Neela Kantam.
Take a look at it.
>>PILLAI: Karma is basically
responsible for all
your problems, and as well
as for your success as well.
Whether you have financial
problem, a relationship
problem, or health problem,
they're all due to karma.
So it's very, very
important that you
keep an eye on
resolving your karma.
And I have spoken
extensively on karma
when I started making
YouTube videos.
So once a day, you
should go and do
the karma busting video
clips because karma
is a very powerful force.
It will not allow
you to make money
if you don't have money karma.
So you'll be sitting
like a zombie.
And you will have no
concept of time passing by.
The same with the
health karma, too.
The health will be failing.
And you will not do
anything about it.
In every area, karma
has its own strong hand.
And you have very little
freedom on a conscious level
to counteract it unless you go
and use this sound, Thiru Neela
Kantam.
That is very powerful one.
And I also prescribe the sacred
ash as a karma removing device.
We have a lot of information on
the sacred ash from my website.
So without the
karma being removed,
there will be no progress.
>>LISA: So what is the
biggest complaint that people
come to you about, or
they seek you out for?
>>PILLAI: Money.
>>LISA: Money.
Universally, this
is what you have?
>>PILLAI: Universally, money
is the number one problem.
And, you know, it is truly
so, because if you have money,
you can deal with the
stress in different ways.
And if you don't have money,
it's really crippling you.
That's why money is
the number one problem.
If you have so many problems,
at least if you have money,
you can just go to Switzerland
and spend some time,
and then come back here.
And I tell people who are
fighting in the same house,
and the reason why they are
staying in the same house is
they cannot afford
a second mortgage.
The guy can't go.
So he has to really
live in the same house.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: That's an
interesting-- well,
why not just address
the relationship
rather than getting
another house?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
Yeah.
It's very difficult, because
there are children involved.
And there are so many problems.
But money can solve
all the problems.
You can have the children and
the bad husband or bad wife,
and still get out.
>>LISA: Really?
But what about happiness?
>>PILLAI: Happiness is
something inside you.
And money helps to buy toys and
pleasure and things like that.
Happiness is something you can--
that is a matter of the soul.
>>LISA: So do you
believe you can
be happy within a relationship
that's not working?
>>PILLAI: Oh, yeah.
>>LISA: How so?
>>PILLAI: Because
you are detached.
You are detached because
you only love the person.
You love the person because that
person, for whatever reason,
you created that person
in the first place.
>>LISA: You attracted them?
>>PILLAI: You attracted them
for some lessons to learn,
or whatever.
And then, but you don't
hate them, hate that person.
You are detached.
And if there is money, you
know, whatever money you want,
here, take my money.
>>LISA: Well, what if you're
reliant upon that other person
for your happiness?
>>PILLAI: You should
only rely on yourself.
>>LISA: No, I'm talking
about happiness.
So many people say, that
person doesn't make me happy.
Or that person upsets me.
>>PILLAI: That's the problem.
You are responsible for your
own happiness or unhappiness.
You should not depend
on somebody else
to make you happy.
>>LISA: Can you talk
more about that?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
When you know that your
mindset is everything.
You are creating everything.
Then why do you want
to create everything?
I am just completely sovereign.
I'm sovereign.
>>LISA: Sovereign?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, I'm sovereign.
And I control my own
destiny, own state.
And if that person
is not helping me,
that's-- it's not
going to affect me.
>>LISA: There's nothing
the other person can do--
>>PILLAI: All that
I do is I create
an environment in which the
external environment doesn't
bother me.
That's why money
is very important,
because that money
gives you the ability
to do whatever you want to do.
That's what I used
to tell people.
If you have money, then you
can go and tell your boss
what you really think about him.
>>LISA: But can you really
tell that to your spouse?
>>PILLAI: Because his spouse
is a different situation.
You have to live with her,
with the spouse all the time.
>>LISA: Right, yes.
>>PILLAI: The boss is
a different situation.
You are committed to the spouse.
And then you want
to-- I would suggest
that you would want to help
that spouse, regardless,
for that person to grow.
>>LISA: Yes, that's--
>>PILLAI: You can
keep on changing
the bosses, but not the spouse.
That's difficult.
>>LISA: Right.
Are there specific
deities that you
can pray to for manifestation?
Or--
>>PILLAI: Oh, yeah, definitely.
>>LISA: Oh, you can?
>>PILLAI: For instance, Brzee
is the goddess of wealth.
>>LISA: Oh, that's
the name of a goddess?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, that's
the name of a goddess.
So you are calling on her.
>>LISA: Ah!
>>PILLAI: You are
calling on her.
See, these beings
have-- they live
in a state of consciousness
in which there is a thought
and the object
are not different.
For them, to think
is to manifest.
>>LISA: So they're
always in the state--
>>PILLAI: That's why I
recommend the mantra meditation,
because every mantra
has a being behind it.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: And that being is
a state of consciousness
that always exists?
Always--
>>PILLAI: So if
we want education
or super intelligence, there
is a goddess that you pray to.
The goddess can be invoked
through this sound.
>>LISA: Ha!
Interesting.
>>PILLAI: OK, when you use the
sound, and then the goddess
will come and do
the things for you.
>>LISA: Because the
god or the goddess
is a state of consciousness.
>>PILLAI: It's a state
of consciousness.
>>LISA: And you're accessing
that state of consciousness?
>>PILLAI: Yeah.
>>LISA: That's what
prayer is to you?
>>PILLAI: That is prayer, too.
>>LISA: Interesting,
so you're invoking--
>>PILLAI: You're invoking that
person to come and help you
for money, a relationship,
or for a court case,
or whatever it is.
>>LISA: Wow!
And there's
different beings or--
>>PILLAI: In this case, your
children have gone into drugs.
And then you are really
feeling sorry and hopeless.
And then this god will
come and help that person.
>>LISA: My goodness!
And is that god accessible
to anyone of any faith?
>>PILLAI: Yeah, anyone.
>>LISA: Any religion,
it doesn't matter?
That's so interesting.
And, wow!
Is there anything
that you still want?
Is there say anything that
you, Dr. Pillai, want?
>>PILLAI: Me?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PILLAI: I want a world
without any suffering
for anyone of any race.
No diseases.
This is my prayer.
My prayer is it doesn't make
sense for anyone to suffer,
either financially,
physically, relationship-wise.
People should live life in
abundance, and in happiness,
and in God.
>>LISA: That's beautiful.
That's a wonderful way to end.
Thank you so much for spending
so much time with us, even
though it really
isn't time to you.
>>PILLAI: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
And if you'd like to watch
my replay of my interview
with Dr. Pillai,
go to Gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]